# Python-challenge

Welcome to my Python Challenge submission. this is split into 2 documents where the results must be extrapolated and printed into both the terminal and the text file. The first part of the challenge is a csv file called PyBank. This file contains the revenue over the period of 86 months. The second part of this challenge is  a csv file called PyPoll. Here contains a list of votes and the and all of the candidates. The main objective of the PyBank component is to determine the total revenue, average change inrevenue and months for which an entity achieved the greatest gain in revenue and the biggest loss of revenue. For the PyPoll component, all of the votes must be tallied up and then determine the percentages of votes each of the candidates received. In the end, the winner with the most votes will also be shown. 

For the PyBank challenge I first summed up all of the number of rows that isn't a header and ith the date values to determine the timespan of the dataset. Then I ran through the column with the values to determine the total revenue of the entire period. For the change in revenue I used subtraction of the current row by the previous value and ran it through the entire period to determine the net change in revenue, then divided by the number of months to get the average change in revenue. Finally by looping through the change in revenue I was able to get the greatest net positive change and net negative change and their corresponding months.

For the PyPoll challenge a similar approach has been taken to determine the total number of votes. A variable has been constructed to store the number of times a name as been scanned by the script and tallies them up. From there, the total number of votes for each candidate are determine through dividing by the total number of votes. The percentage each candidate has also been determined. Finally the candidate wih with the most number of votes is listed.

For both scripts, the outputs are all grouped together with the specific format and printed into the terminal. Both scripts also store the results of the same format as a text file and saved into their respective Analysis folders. Finally the last part of the script then opens up the folder containing their respective text output. 